selecting bias = ignore unfavorite that you want to focus

publicaton bioas(file drawer) p value < 0.05 / 0.01, Normal distribution
in 2 standard deviation. The value is arbitrary. Fisher convince anyone
has to get at least .05 p value.Published paper required the threshold
value.More value can't be published. Bias for publication.

Censoring bias; survival analysis: cencoring live human in the dissease.
Maybe we stop surveying people, but then after we stop surveyed, people
live and die, so we defineitly can't count it. It's censoring bias.
Abosulte should be until all people die, but it's not the case, and it's
something to take into account in statistical model.

Sampling Bias, is bias when sampling, maybe not all group or category
can't sampled enough. Maybe not all people equal weight. Maybe not alll
people can't reached, poor people or people that don't want to be
surveyed.

--------

Analyze how are the traffic if you use Google Adwords or not in your
website.

Selection Bias will favor the event we want to focus. If we focus the
accident, we don't observed the normal event.

--------

Big Data is very difficult as we want to observe every single data.
Too complex and expensive. That's why we want to do sampling, subseting
of the original data. Needed all the time.

Simple random sampling: take complete random sampling of the data in
certain size.Size is fixed because we are not certain the original size
of the data. Disadvanage is daata is skewed too much for one event over
the others.Or maybe one event is homogenous or heterogenous, if homo is
simpler, whereas hetero has to define the groups.If we face two
different data size. What sample size in each of the dataset to have
same standard error.Absolute size is matter more than relative size in
random sampling. Disadvantage maybe 100% people in shorter side. Shorter
survey doesn't matter if you surveyed good.10.000 is a good sample size
if you survey good no matter millions of people out there.Small blood
sample size also doesn't matter to how much the weight.

Stratified Sampling: take fixed size for every group

CLuster Sampling.Sampling in every cluster. Have to know the clusters
out there.

Snowball Sampling every node is person and interconnected in the
networl. And sampling on based on who connect to who. Find each friend's
friends. Snowball means it expanded very fast. Disadvantage : hard to
reach the population, tracing it. Centrality theorem related to normal
distribution, stastical reason. 


------

Bias Variance tradeoff. Too much variance is you overfitting the model,
can be handling future input. If you have too much bias, you're going
too be generalized and have too much error. 

MSE mean squared error, predictive model. Root square error. -1 to have
little bias. 

------

Poisson most important normal distribution besides biinomial.
(-1)^x is unbiased e^02. Only get -1 to 1. In this way Poisson will not
let us unbiaesd.

Unbiased probablit times weight. 

For exple if we have 10 poles, take average won't be the predictor.
There are some pole that ar biased, or larger sample size. We can use
standard error to measure each pole. More standard erro will be less
trust. Or for better is to have inverse of proportional to variancee.
Too much weight can be put larger size. 

